The President:
Hello, everybody.
I'm speaking to you this
week from the Boeing Plant in
Everett, Washington.
Boeing has been in this
community for half a century.
But it's what they're doing
here today that has folks really
excited; because at this plant
they're building the plane of
the future -- the Dreamliner.
It's an impressive sight.
And, to be honest, part of why
I came was to see it up close.
But I also came because this is
a great example of how we can
bring jobs and manufacturing
back to America.
You see, the last few
decades haven't been easy for
manufacturing in this country.
New technology has made
businesses more efficient and
productive -- and that's good
-- but it's also made a lot of
jobs obsolete.
The result has been painful
for a lot of families
and a lot of communities.
Factories where people thought
they'd retire have left town.
Jobs that provided a
decent living have been
shipped overseas.
And the hard truth is that
a lot of those jobs aren't
coming back.
But that doesn't mean we have
to settle for a lesser future.
I don't accept that idea.
In America, there's always
something we can do to create
new jobs and new manufacturing
and new security for
the middle-class.
In America, we don't
give up -- we get up.
Right now, that's
exactly what we're doing.
Over the past 23 months,
businesses have created 3.7
million new jobs.
And manufacturers are hiring for
the first time since the 1990s.
It's now getting more expensive
to do business in places
like China.
Meanwhile, America is
more productive than ever.
And companies like Boeing are
realizing that even when we
can't make things
cheaper than China,
we can make things better.
That's how we're going
to compete globally.
For Boeing, business
right now is booming.
Last year, orders for commercial
aircraft rose by more than 50%.
To meet that rising demand,
they've put thousands of folks
to work all over the country.
We want to see more of this.
We need to make it as easy as we
can for our companies to create
more jobs in America,
not overseas.
And that starts
with our tax code.
No company should get a tax
break for outsourcing jobs.
Instead, tax breaks should go
to manufacturers who set up shop
here at home.
Bigger tax breaks should go
to high-tech manufacturers who
create the jobs of the future.
And if you relocate a company
in a struggling community,
you should get help
financing that new plant,
that new equipment, or
training for new workers.
It's time to stop rewarding
businesses that ship jobs
overseas, and start rewarding
businesses that create jobs here
in America.
And Congress should send me that
kind of tax reform right away.
Another thing we're doing is
to make it easier for companies
like Boeing to sell their
products all over the world,
because more exports
mean more jobs.
Two years ago, I set a goal
of doubling U.S. exports
over five years.
And we're on track
to meet that goal --
ahead of schedule.
We have a big opportunity right
now to build not only an economy
that will help us succeed today,
but an economy that will help
our kids and their
kids succeed tomorrow.
We know what we need to do.
We need to strengthen
American manufacturing.
We need to invest in
American-made energy and new
skills for American workers.
And above all, we need to renew
the values that have always made
this country great: Hard work.
Fair play.
Shared responsibility.
We can do this.
Just ask the folks
here in Everett.
Right here, a few years ago, the
first Dreamliner took off on its
maiden trip.
Thousands of employees
came to watch.
One was an executive
office administrator named
Sharon O'Hara.
And as Sharon saw that
first plane take flight --
a result of so much hard
work -- she got goose bumps.
In her words, she said, "We
said we would do it and we did."
That's the story of America.
We said we'd do it, and we did.
That's the can-do spirit
that makes us who we are.
We've seen challenging
times before.
But we always emerge
from them stronger.
And that's what we're
going to do again today.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.